HELLO GUYS I'M BACK to continue talking about Gutenberg in the last lesson.
I made an introduction about this new tool we installed Gutenberg and explained a little about this
new auditing experience in wordpress.
As I told you it looks a little like most page builder such as the visual composer and so on.
But there's still some hard work to do while the Wordpress team works hard to improve Gutenburg.
I'm going to show you all that's available at the moment and especially show you what your film can
do to get the most out of Gutenburg in this lesson.
I'm going to spend some time explaining to you some of the basic features of the new good and bad editor.
As I said in previous lessons the goal is not to explain everything about all the tools available even
because Gutenberg is a project that is still evolving.
Many things are yet to come.
But as my students were very curious and eager to learn more about it and rightly so let's explore what
we got until now.
Let's first take a look at the lay out.
As I said before it has nothing to do with class Ed..
The tiny MC Adager in fact good Enberg resolves around the basic elements wishes.
The so called block everything in the layout resolves around these blocks.
So if you hover over the document you see that every little element here is a block.
We have a name H-Block paragraph blocks headers lists and they can all be identified by this little
two tips that show when the mouse over each of them look.
One interesting thing is that they are highly interactive so you can move a block up and down.
Just the click of the mouse.
Drag and drop to rearrange blocks may also be available but not now.
Maybe in the near future which will make Gutenburg even more dynamic and maybe when you're watching
this video this function is already in place for now.
What they got is a functionality called the inserter the inserter is this plus button that you can see
right here just below each block.
For example here or here in this toolbar at the top the main goal is to facilitate as much as possible
the insertion of any block in the editing area.
So by clicking this plus button you'll have access to all the blocks and these blocks can be of various
types from simple Cheng's subtexts paragraphs to elements that until now were hidden in wordpress.
For example did you know that you could embed a YouTube or Vimeo video or any media content from all
of this other services without any plug in.
Yeah a lot of people have no idea now that the blocks the whole thing became much clearer and the whole
idea is that any kind of content that can be added to the editor area will be available as a block in
the future.
So the user will never need to use shortcuts anymore or any piece of a tiny amount called there will
only need to choose a block and place the content wherever they want.
Cosiness Well then you may ask me what Marcello what happened to the content like post pages content
that are already have on my wordpress installation.
What will become of them really need to recreate everything from scratch.
Well to answer this regardless of this demo content behind for a moment and we're going to open one
of the posts that is Serveti saved in our WordPress site open up this one here
well look as you can see it seems like everything is still in place.
What happens when you activate the editor.
Is that WordPress moves everything inside the single block which is called the classic block.
Basically the classic block which you can find also true the inserter look.
Its all others are tiny.
MC That is if you want to continue using the tiny MC inside Gutenburg you can.
Its possible if you want.
You can also convert everything into blocks here on the right side you have some actions related to
the block which will of course rise from block to block.
In this example I can convert this classic content into a block by clicking here in convert to blocks.
In this case I end up with two paragraphs.
If I am not satisfied with the changes I made just click here on this little arrow.
I can't go back here and ask to duplicate or remove the block.
You can get the idea.
Let's turn this content back into blocks.
OK.
So I have two paragraphs again here.
So let me show you something else.
Each block has its own settings and this rise from block to block for example here for the paragraph
block I have some basic formatting options bold italic alignment and here on the side I have more options
related only to the blocks selected.
This box here is called the block inspector.
Here I can as an example.
Change the font size.
I can use these buttons all the slider I can go to show a larger initial letter here under color settings
I can choose the font color and also background color by default.
I have these colors here but I can also choose in other colors later on we're going to learn how to
make it the color palette for your theme available too.
So if you want the client to be restricted to only a few colors for example you can do it.
And for most blocks you can also add a special census class that's going to be very useful if you want
to customize them pretty much like what we got in most pages this out there this other tag called document
gives you access to all settings related to the post as a whole.
Pretty much like we already had in the older editor as mega-bucks is only the layout is a bit different.
One of the advantages of this tool is that if any field theme hasn't yet added any support you Gutenburg
it allows us to have a very consistent look both here in the editor and in the front end.
So both versions can look quite the same yet you can always take a look at how different that looks
like by clicking here on this preview button.
As we have already tweaked the post a little we can have a look at how it's getting a click here in
Preview and the front and opens in the new tab.
Sometimes you'll notice a boring bug here as it try to preview the post.
You see that if you click the update button before previewing the results the button will be endlessly
processing to view the page.
You have to reload the editor and then click preview again then the page will load.
Oh so sometimes you see some arrows display and say that the update has failed as we saw at the beginning
of this lesson.
I hope that in the future they can correct that.
Let's try some more.
Let's suppose I want to insert in an image gallery here between these two paragraphs.
For me this gallery block which is a native Gutenburg lock is one of the most incredible blocks.
It simply works out of the box.
So you create a new gallery Let's go hadn't used inserter.
It may be this one here or this one here too.
The difference is that when you choose to use this one at stop you need to reposition the block later
because it's going to be placed at the end of the post.
So I'm going to use this one here and see the block.
I have a couple of different options I can choose a block here where some of the recently used blocks
which show I can click here on this plus I can and look for the block here or use the search box or
I can do it the easiest way.
I'm going to type a slash and then write the name of the block I want.
For example slash Guillory and I don't even have to write the full name of the block.
Look for example slash you.
It's already showing me the huge You block and so on
just hit enter and they can set up some options from a block in this case I'm going to choose a couple
of images that they already have in this WordPress installation.
I can upload some new images too if I wish.
I'm going to select these three images and that's it.
And the gallery is already in place.
In this case it's three column gallery and if you wish you can come here and choose only two columns.
See what happens.
Look how cool.
So let's see if it's showing up right on the front end.
And there you have it.
Perfect.
Now the whole thing don't stop here.
Gutenburg has proved to us to use new types of alignment those alignments will affect blocks such as
images image galleries videos etc..
You can choose between an alignment called White and the second one called food.
In the next lesson I'm going to show you how to enable this alignments in the theme because by default
they are not enabled.
We only get this three kinds of alignments up here.
Another thing you can do with the blocks is turn them into something else.
For example a gallery block can be converted into a single image block.
Just click here on the first button of this area here which by the way has a name it's called the floating
menu bar and it'll show you a list of blocks you can convert it into.
This of course will arise from block to block.
And of course not all blocks who have this feature here.
In this case we can transform the gallery into individual image blocks look
and of course if you want to reverse this action you can always click here.
Or if you have already closed the post editor you can reverted back to the older version by clicking
this revision button later on this course.
Talk about other features but that's enough for now.
I believe you had an interesting idea of how Gutenburg works for those who want to learn more of course.
I'll leave a link of a greater chore you that explains in detail how other blocks work inside.
Good work and this link will be available in the extra materials for this lesson and the next lesson
we are going to start working with the thin files.
So lets first see how to add support for those two special alignments that I mentioned today and you'll
begin to understand the connections between Arfin and the good in the editor.
So until then see your.